---
layout: page
title: Reservoir Water
description: time-series forecasting with SARIMA
img: assets/img/project/thumbnail/04.png
importance: 1
category: climate
related_publications: 
---

A reservoir is an artificial lake where water is stored, and its outlet is dammed to control the water level for uses such as water supply, irrigation, hydroelectric power, etc. 
In California, there are more than a thousand major reservoirs, most of which are located in the central and northern portions of the state. 
As [climate change](https://water.ca.gov/Programs/All-Programs/Climate-Change-Program/Climate-Change-and-Water) increasingly impacts California's water resources, reservoir storage 
become increasingly variable between years. Water supply projections, therefore, also become challenging and less predictable.

	This project focuses on a reservoir in Napa Valley, California, which serves as one 
	of the city's three water supplies. In 2020, the valley faced a severe drought, with 
	reservoir storage expected to plummet to 33% by November. The city declared a water 
	emergency in July 2020. Unfortunately, there was a three-year gap in the water level 
	monitoring data as part of the state's reservoir reporting program, spanning from 
	June 2019 to July 2022. The fundamental goal of this research is to predict or forecast 
	the missing water levels between June 2019 and June 2022, thus bridging the gap.

The reservoir data is a time series of recorded water levels describing the reservoir capacity over a period of time. Water levels, which are converted to elevation (NAVD88), 
were manually collected as early 1980s. The data interval varies from occasionally weekly data to, most of the time, monthly data. As a result, the data preparation process was a bit challenging, 
at the cost of coarser data resolution for model fitting. The project involved the application of the Seasonal ARIMA (SARIMA) model to fit data and forecast.

Visit the time-series repository for more details: <br>
[GitHub/time-series-reservoir-water-level](https://github.com/liangchow/time-series-reservoir-water-level/)  

<div class="row justify-content-sm-center">
    <div>
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/project/reservoir_00.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    Figure 1. SARIMA forecasting results.
</div>

***
Thumbnail image generated by hotpot.ai <br>
Last update: 7/2024

